From Hansel minutes.com it's
Hansel minutes or weekly discussion
with web developer and technologists.
Scott Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin.
This is Laura's Ryan announcing
show number 57. Recorded Wednesday,
March 28th, 2007. Support for Hanselman it's
is provided by Tellerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components or windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottlerik.com.
Support is also provided by
dotnet developers journal, the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Microsoft developer
Polly DePaula gets a visit
from Scott and Roy life.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and I'm wandering around building
42 at Microsoft, and I'm
asking random people in random
offices. What are you working
on Roy? Thanks for walking
around with me at building
40. Okay. Okay. Hi. How
are you? Hi,  fantastic
thing. Is that Greg? What
is it? It's not great.
A, well, the first name
is Mexican and the last
name is German. I was
so wrong in every possible
way at HR question to
ask on chaplain. Well, I
actually do it all the
time. I'm really curious just
because we've got people from
all over the world, actually
a lot of people, I
guess. Huh? Okay. Well, I
don't feel that by then.
So what do you do?
What's your title? I am
a, I'm a dev on
the asp.net team. We have.
That's your debt you program?
I do. If we found
one. Okay. The deal is
this. There is a 10
to one ratio program managers
to devs at Microsoft. It's
a little known fact and
you could potentially own a
feature as a PM and
you have only one 10th
of developer's time. We didn't
know that Jeff's existed. We
haven't found any. I won
the feature for the group
program manager of the unit
you actually code for a
living. I actually code for
a living on any features
or managing any programs or
products. Well, I do on
features, but definitely features. Oh,
that's fantastic. That's fantastic. Well,
I own a namespace. I
don't, I haven't, I am
parts of a namespace. I
didn't spaces, system, web UI
dealt with controls. Wow. That's
actually huge. I wish I
could say I came up
with it, but I didn't
know. What do you do?
What are you coding? I
mean, I couldn't see sharp
and I own the data
features or asp.net. So I
wrote the good view and
details of you in front
of you is where the
grid view  I can't
believe we just walked in
here. We're going to totally.
Yes. Yeah. I taught people
how to use it. I
went through a home thing
where I was just teaching
people how to use it.
I've done that hardcore. Yeah.
Great. Yeah. And then we
another dev and I kind
of designed the, the data
interface options, data source and
SQL data. So Yeah, that
is cool. I love the
B side all data source,
but you have to data
source. Is it allowed for
that abstraction? That was, you
know, kind of, you know,
that was a bit difficult
to do influence as a
dev. Do you have on
the design? I mean, are
you sitting down and designing
out the experience and the
UML and how this thing's
going to create or does
someone do that? And you're
just trying to crack, I
dunno, we designed almost the
whole thing. We, we have
a very strong program manager
that we work with and
it's literally like two or
three of us will sit
down and talk everything out.
Talk about property names, and
are you stuff over and
our wrestle about what's the
best, whoever wins, wins, and
then you, Or something like
that, who says, man, we,
you know, the thing that
we're missing, object data source,
who does that and then
tells you, and then you
go, Oh yes. And you
get excited about it. When,
when does that happen? Largely
nobody tells us what's missing.
We, we know our customers
really well. And we say,
we need object, data source.
We need this thing that
can just buy into, you
know, people's code. And so
we, we prioritize it and
we build it. It's really
fun. We were working on
stuff for orcas It's pattern
cubes to Petland cute. She's
got freaking six of them
cubes. Wow. Initial dynamic, rendering
control data. Wow. Yeah, that
was a feature that, that
made it into a CTP,
but not create a final
release. The names are so
you must not have come
with a super tentious. They'll
give some really complicated named
method and system provider actually
dated by and they get
control of the template. They
have to be specific object
data source on the cube
is that would be too
often. That's not the object.
That's the bind statement. The
fund, you have a patent
for the binds different fine
pair, you know, open parent,
close parents without, without getting
to, you know, potentially, you
know, stuck in the legal
stuff. Do you know? I
mean, I don't do patents
myself or I've never, I'm
not, I'm not one of
the smart people here. So
when you do those, is
it more to protect us
rather than to, you know,
use it like to Lord
over other people? I always
feel like we do patents
to protect ourselves. I think
it's a little bit of
both. We do it to
protect ourselves into a kind
of claim ownership over something
that we feel is unique.
But, but I think it's
also to make sure that
that is ours in the
future that we don't, we
don't have a lot of
features that we're giving away
for free. Yeah. Because I
think he's just sometimes have
the idea that we're just
like trying to patent everything
so that we can, you
know, be like a big
bulldozer. But I don't think
we're doing that. I mean,
we do it to protect
our IP really. I mean,
I've been here eight years
and I've got six of
these. It's not that common.
We don't, Well, we saw
Vance's office, you've seen his
office, he sits on a
cube of cubes. It doesn't
sound countable. He's got like,
I was like 14, 14.
He had quite a few,
they were in a pyramid,
but I mean, yeah, it's
cool. Every time I see
someone with cubes, I get
excited. Cause cubes. Yeah, he
did something good. You know,
I'm actually, I'm starting to
think of something to say
I've starstruck with.  pretty
cool. We got very, very
lucky. I worked on a
book with, with bill Evian
and Devin rater for Rocksville
professionally. Never heard of the
book. No idea just knew
she doesn't need it. I
know. But see if I
knew her before it would
have been a better book.
Do you bother you that
we reflect into your code
to get into your mind?
Or would you rather than
we just gave you, would
you rather that you could
give away the source? And
that's interesting because we reflect,
we feel the sources available
anyway. Well, absolutely. We don't
mind the guy that wrote
reflector, you know, down the
hall, right? Yeah. We're looking
for him. Yeah. He's usually
around. I think it's great
that people look in the,
in the code and figure
out how to do stuff
on their own. It's almost
like an enabler to make
you more independent. You don't
have to send mail to
somebody at Microsoft. And if
you don't get your answer
off the forums, you can
find it yourself. The XML
data stores also. I know
I didn't do the Monday.
Yeah. So I want to
know why it doesn't support
namespaces within X path. You
can't use the XML data
source with any document that
has a namespace. I don't
know the answer. No prefixes,
nothing to call out sick
today. Now he's sick. He's
faced prefixes. He's telling you
to appreciate me. How did
you coordinate that? You've got
one person. I mean the
XML data source, you obviously
want to have a overarching
group of data sources and
they all want to behave
the same way.  Oh,
so the actual there's a
patent for the creation of
that. The management of that.
Wow. That's great. Yeah. So
Alon the guy who wrote
most of those and I
spend lots and lots of
time. Yeah.  to get
back into the content what's
that made out of, I'm
going to be granted my
countertops. Wow. That's fantastic. And
then who's your guest? My
guest is Matt. He's my
manager too. Hi Matt. So
Matt, you have responsibility over
which, which portions of stuff
now. Cause you're never going
to pull it. You just
keep rising. I have responsibility
over asb.net. Yeah. Full-stop system,
that web system, that configuration
you're branching up. So, so
I have a question for
you and this is getting
a little off of your
topic, although I really respect,
what do you think about
alternative ways to write, write
and that's sites like monorail
and the castle project. So,
so, and this is not
like a control and I'm
not trying to kind of
like how much it from
the side, but, but you
know, you know that there
are people out there doing
crazy wacky stuff with HTTP
handlers and to be modules
and stuff like that. When
someone builds something on top
of like monorail is a
rails, like framework, an MVC
framework based on an HTP
handler. And it's an alternate
lifestyle that runs within ASP.
The thought process. When you
hear about something like that,
that a person's built a
whole other parallel universe, evil
Spock, there's an evil mat
with a goatee doing this
kind of work. Do you
go, Hey, that's awesome. Fantastic.
Or do you kind of
wish they really understood pages
and the whole, what we
were thinking, is there kind
of a sense of now
it's not a, have they
done something evil? It's it's
what is it that they're,
they're driving out there? For
example, they might say that
we really wanted a really
true MVC style model, three
framework, and that the code
behind it just didn't give
us the kind of separation
that we wanted. They felt
that the markup and the
Kobe Hunter. So, so married
partially because of the way
that one, one had that
kind of uncomfortable derivation situation
that became very nice with
the partial classes stuff. But
they felt that the idea
that you can't reuse a
code behind with other markup,
without some serious dancing, you
can always do stuff without
some dancing when they do
stuff like that. Do you
want to kind of bring
them back into the fold
and explain to them like,
this is what we were
thinking or do you think
that's great. They want to
build that on top of
it. And they're using the
stack. I take it beyond
that. I look at it
and go, we have the
page framework and controls architecture
is somewhat heavy weight and
the control tree and the
whole pre-render process is nontrivial.
And if they say, what
I really wanted is a
model view architecture, and I
want it this way. I'm
not looking to convert them
back to some other architecture.
I look at it, go,
are there ways that we
should be building something closer
to that? So how do
you do that? So here
you've got people like the
rails guys in the Ruby
world, they have a, just
a very different view on
things. And I know that
there's the, where's the, where's
the, the generator that someone
just did. It was a,
that was you, Scott. You
want to tell the audience
real quick or what do
you tell ya? That's an
example. So here's an example
of someone doing the alternative
lifestyle thing. And the team
itself, is this your way
of kind of sending a
message, like here's a totally
different way thinking about it.
We really, the creativity And
what we see in the,
in the industry of people
coming out with new things
are their way of telling
us what they want to
see an estimate on that.
And that's how we get
to figure out what people
want. And we knew there
was an area where people
wanted to show their data
and they didn't want to
spend a ton of time
kind of exposing their data
and wiring up lots of
data sources. They wanted something
that could get them started
really quickly. And also we
wanted a chance to show
off this new technology called
length that we were building.
So that's what blink did
it. It was a command
line generator, really simple, no
UI or anything that just
says, here's, you know, you
showed me your database and
I can show you pages.
That'll let you insert, update,
delete, filter, all those things
that should just It's like
Rick, just do it. Yeah.
It just like, right. Yeah.
And, and when you're done,
you should have a website
that works for That's an
asp.net WWF. L I N
Q. Yeah. You're just the
hits. Keep coming. Can I
say something that's fine. I
just thought your question was
really interesting because I mean,
it is on our stack,
so that's, that's good. You
know, that's a good thing.
So they're building on our
staff, but I used to
work kind of in the
Java world. You know, that's
what I did before coming
to the Microsoft side of
things. And, you know, the
Java kind of method was
to build your own framework.
You know, you often just
kind of went ahead and
build, you built your own
framework and you didn't use
the supply tools. And the
Microsoft word is typically people
use the supply tools, you
know, they don't typically build
their own framework. So this
is actually kind of a
fairly new thing in, in
Microsoft. I think it's nice
because of like C sharp
and VB and boom and
iron Python and the stuff
that's on Lam and the
Ruby CLR guys are doing.
I mean, this is all
just saying that, you know,
babble is, is kind of,
okay, diversity is all right.
There are languages that are
clearly more expressive than others,
but in the aztreonam net
world early on, it was
just such a monolithic thing.
And, and that people can
be encouraged to do blank
or monorail or, or whatever
else. That's not that we
support that, that tells me
that there could potentially be
a future for blank beyond
just being a, a curiosity
or a CTP or a,
you know, a sample that
just kind of sits there.
It could be an alternative
way of thinking about how
to do stuff Upset. Yeah.
And that the evolution of
blink is that the team
that does our designer is
looking at building perhaps a
wizard in the future where
maybe you could choose your
tables. It'll do something Cool.
The done at CF has
some tools like that, sort
of where you can generate
an entire tenancy of from
a, from a database. Well
sort of, I mean, a
lot, a lot of the
plumbing is done for you.
It's actually pretty cool. And
I mean, well, that gets
into the whole topic of,
of where can you find
your contract, right. Let me
talk to about this, Roy
I'll, I'll find the idea
of a, we call it
contract supplementation or use your
contract in some ways it's
NCLR metadata, and you want
to generate the fan out
from there, or is it
fries? Is it your, your
database? Is it an XML
file? You have model driven
development, right? Here's kind of
what I'm trying to say.
And what can't you generate
generate if you're, if you
have to write anything that
could have been done by
the computer. Sure. You could
imagine, you know, generating like
forms apps or generating apps
or generating, you know, lots
of different things. There's, there's
no reason that that UI,
like can't be switched out
for other UI layers. I
think the teaser. Thank you
both. Thank you so much
for accommodating us. And we're
just sort of barging in
sort of a we're good.
Thanks guys.